hey guys always a new way in this
computer vision tutorial in this video
here we're going to talk about the face
mist with media pipe so we're going to
use the media pipe
module and framework that i showed you
in the last video as well where we did
the face detection
uh with this media pipe here but in this
video here we're going to do actual like
face mask detection so we're going to
detect different kind of like features
in the phases and we're actually going
to create a face mesh uh with this
machine learning solution here from
media pipe but first of all remember to
join a discord server i'll link to it
down the description here and you come
to join us
chat with us about computer vision deep
learning and so on
you can also become a member of the
channel here if you want to support the
channel like even more than you're
currently doing
with a small monthly fee and everything
will go to create more and better
quality content here on the channel
so thank you guys so we're not into
sublime text here and i'm going to show
you
how we can actually like set up this
phase of mesh detection here
with media pipe and opencv we're going
to convert it back and and i'll actually
like process the image
pass it through the machine learning
solution or like the new network and
then we're going to do some different
kind of stuff with the detections
of our face message so in this video
here i'm going to show you how we can
set it up and how we can play around
with it
get the different kind of values the
chord the actual coordinates of the face
points
that we're going to detect in the face
match so first of all here we're going
to
to actually like uh just initialize
these different kind of modules
that we did in the last video as well
with that with both the drawing and also
for the face mesh
so first of all here we're going to
create like the face mesh object that
we're going to use later on
so i can like do the face mesh detection
so first of all here we have this mp
underscore face mesh and we set that
equal to the mp so we are using the
media pipe module up here so we have mp
dot
solutions because we know that all of
the different kind of things is built
into this
solution method or class here so we're
actually like inside this
solutions here now and then we can just
go in here and say dot and then we can
actually just take the fish
facial mesh so now we have actually
initialized the face mask
detector that we're going to use later
on where we're actually like going to
pass
our image from obviously uh through this
process off the face mesh here and then
we're going to get out
all the all the points for our face myth
that we're detecting in the image frame
so to be able to actually draw what's
going on in our face
mesh later on in almost v we're also
going to initialize this object here for
the actual like drawing tools that we're
going to use
so we're going to have mp underscore uh
drawing here as well
and we're just going to use the mp
module here again and
inside solutions and then we know that
we have this drawing utilities
uh that we use in the last videos as
well so we have this
drawing underscore utils and we can then
use that later on to actually like draw
the face mesh that we're detecting
so we also need some drawing
specifications down here that we can add
that we can set like for example the
thickness
and also the radius of the circle of
these different kind of like face meshes
or the features
that we're detecting in the faces so
we're just going to set up this
drawing underscore spec here so so
respect for our drawings and we're going
to set that equal to mp
drawing they'll just initialize an
object up up here
above and then we're going to have this
and we're going to call this method here
drawing specs
so it is called drawing specs with no
underscore
so like this and then we're going to set
the thickness so we're going to like set
the thickness after
after points our interface messages and
also the radius either
the radius of the circle so we're just
going to type in here thickness and
we're going to set the thickness equal
to one
and then we can also specify the circuit
ratios here in the specifications
so we have this circle radius and we set
the eq that is radius equal to one in
this example here
so now we actually like to set up
everything we need for and initialize
the objects that we're going to need
to actually be able to to take the face
mesh
off the image or like off the faces that
we're actually going to to show
with our camera where we're going to
load in each individual frames we're
going to pass that frame
through the machine learning solution it
will go it's going to find the face
meshes and then after that
we're going to use the mp drawing
utilities here to actually like draw
that
face mesh uh in an opencv window then we
have set up everything here we can go
down here and then we can open up the
video capture here so the webcam
that we're going to load in the images
from in in from that we're going to
actually like
uh detect these face messages here in
the image
so then we can go down here and actually
like open up the face mesh detector
detector that we just initialized up
here so we're going to have width here
and then we have mp
underscore phase mesh that we just
initialized up here with an object
and then we're going to call this method
here inside of this object that we just
initialized
so we're going to set up some different
kind of specifications here for the face
mask detector
so we're going to set a minimum
detection confidence here and these are
just
some of the parameters that i showed you
in the last video as well where we have
these different kind of like confidences
if if the confidence is over under some
threshold if the current should actually
like
display that as a face miss if we're
going to detect it as a face myth
if it's over this uh or if it's over
this confidence
threshold that we set up here in the
initialization
so we're going to set the minimum
detection confidence here to point uh to
2.5 and we're also going to have a
minimum tracking
confidence score here which we're also
going to just going to set to uh
0.5 here and then we're going to open it
up here with face mask so we can then
just use
face match later on here when we're
actually like going to pass
our image through the process method uh
in this facemate
module here so then we go around here
and we can just have this while loop
here
so as long as we're reading in images or
like as long as our capture is opened
uh with our webcam then we're just going
to load in uh these
individual frames here one by one so
we'll try to like read in frame here we
just have this image here that we set
equal to the capture
so the capture is the actual webcam that
we've opened up and then we're going to
call this method here read so we're
actually like reading in an image from
our webcam and then we're going to store
it if
it was a success and we're going to
store the actual image that we're
loading in in this image variable here
that we can then
later use later on to do some conversion
between rgb and bdr and then also pass
it to our
facemask detector so second thing here
we're going to do we
is that we're just going to start a
timer so we're going to like time how
long it takes to actually like do all of
these operations
on our image and how like efficient and
and how good performance
does this phase met detector actually
like have and then at the end we're
going to show
the actual like fps so like the number
of fps that we get
with running this um algorithm here or
like this phase detect
phase mass detector on a common cpu or
like just a standard cpu so
this is one of the benefits with this
media pipe module here is that
it is really well optimized for common
hardware and we can run all these
different kind of detectors
both face message phase detection uh
hand detection and stuff like that on us
and standard computer with a common cpu
so
so it's really nice and cool and very
efficient module that we're going to use
so after we have done that we can
actually like we need to convert the
image from pgr to rgb
and then first of all we're going to
like flip the image horizontally
for a ladder like self-view displays or
this is just like a standard procedure
that we have to do before we're passing
our image through this
uh process function down here at the end
so first of all we're just going to use
the cvt color here so we're going to
convert the
um the image from the er to rgb because
when we're loading in the image with
opencv it actually like defaults to bdr
but this
method here or like this machine
learning solution here it is operating
with rgb
images so we need to convert that um to
rdb first we're going to process the
image and then we're going to convert it
back
later on as well then we can also
actually like improve the performance
when we're going to process this image
here
so this is like an optional mark here
that the image is
not writable so we're actually like
passing the image by reference
so that means that we can try to like it
improve the performance a bit when we're
when we're setting this writable here
equal to four
volts before we actually like processing
the image and then after that
we can actually like set set it equal to
true again so we now actually like write
to our image
and it is not passed as a reference
anymore so this is just like a small
optimization step
that can improve the performance a
little bit
so now we're going to process the actual
image here so we actually like get the
results or the face messages that we're
detecting in our image frame
so we're just going to set the results
equal here like there's this result
variable here equal to the face mask
so this was the face mist that we opened
up here uh with this
uh with this object here they're
initialized with these different kind of
like configurations
and then we're just going to call this a
method here process and then we're going
to pass in the image that we want to
process
and then all the different kind of like
results or like all the face messages
and features that we're detecting
from the faces in the image we're going
to store all this all that information
here in this results um
in this results um variable here that we
can then display and do some different
kind of stuff with
darker like be able to show the face
mist later on then we just set this
writable here equal to true again and we
convert our image back as i already
mentioned
from rgb to pvr so we can actually
display our image and what is going on
in our image
in opencv here as well again so when we
have done that we can actually go down
here and then we're actually like going
to do something
with the results from like the landmarks
so like the features that were detected
in our face match so we can go down here
and check like if
the results here dot multi multi
it's called multi phase landmarks
and we're just here we're just checking
if we actually like detecting some
multi-phase landmarks here
um in our image frame that we're passing
through uh
this process function up here and then
if there's any results here and we have
to take the face mesh in in the image
then we can actually like just have a
full loop that is running through all
the different kind of like face
landmarks
in our for loop and then we can do
different kind of stuff like
writing it out or like showing it and
displaying it on our image frame where
we're going to use the mp
drawing utilities that we set up earlier
here in the program
so here we're just going to have a for
loop that is running through all like
the face
landmarks so we're just going to type
four
phase landmarks in and then we have the
results here where
all of the results here is stored and
then we're going to set it dot multi
because we need the same as up here in
the if statement so here we just check
if there's any
landmarks detected and down here we're
actually going to run through all the
landmarks that we have actually like
detected so here we're going to type in
multi
and phase and then landmarks again as we
just did up above here so then we're
gonna go down here and we can actually
just try to here to print out
the phase landmarks and see what is
going on um in
in this variable here when we're
actually like running through all
different kind of landmarks
in our detection so run run the program
here we're actually going to run this
face mess detector here so we can see
that we're not drawing anything
uh yet but if we take out the output
here we can actually see that work that
we get up here
all the different kind of like landmark
coordinates here that we're detecting in
our faith match so now we're going to
run through
all of all of like the landmarks that
we're detecting and then we're going to
display them as well here
on our image so we can actually like see
the whole face maze that we're detecting
but right now we're just printing out
all the landmarks here uh to our output
or terminal
so after we've printed out the phase
landmarks here that we're actually
detecting we can just comment this out
here as well because now we just want to
display the face meshes or like the
phase landmarks that we're detecting in
the image frame instead of just printing
it out to the terminal or to our output
so we'll go down here and use the mp
drawing utilities that we set up earlier
so we're going to use
mp underscore drawing and then we're
going to call this method here that is
called draw
landmarks so this is the function or
like
method that we're actually going to use
to actually draw the landmarks
and then we just have some configuration
that we need to set up here so first of
all we need to pass in
uh the image where we want to actually
like draw the landmarks on
and then we're going to specify the
landmark list here as well
so we're going to have this landmark
underscore
underscore list here and then we're
going to set that equal to the face
landmarks
so this is the all the landmarks that
we're detecting in our image frame and
this is what we're running through
our fall loop here in a multi-phase
landmarks so when we've done that we can
actually just go down here to the next
line
and and do some other different kind of
configurations so we also need to to
specify like the connections here that
we're going to use
so we're going to specify here
connections and then we're going to set
the connections equal to the mp
underscore
face mesh that we're using and then
we're going to set it dot here and then
we can actually have something called
face connection so this is the way that
we're going to connect the actual like
face
landmarks that we're there that we're
detecting in our image frames so we're
just going to type here
face and then we also haven't have
another
specification here where we have where
we are going to specify
the drawing specifications that we
specified up here at the top as well
so now we're going to to put this here
into the method as well
so the drawing specs here with the
thickness of one and also
the radius off the circle uh for the
landmarks that we're detecting
so if we go down here again we can now
specify our landmark
or landmark underscore drawing
underscore specs so the specifications
for
drawing our landmarks and we're going to
set that equal to the drawing specs that
we specified up above that i just showed
you
and the last thing here that we're going
to specify is the connection
uh drawing specs so how we can actually
like um connect
these different kind of like sports
drawing specifications that we specified
as well
and we're just going to set that equal
to the same thing as up here
so i'm just going to write in here
connection underscore
drawing underscore specification and
then we're going to set that equal to
drawing spec
as up above here and now we actually
have all the things here that we need to
set up to actually like be able to draw
the landmarks
that we're detecting in our face mesh so
if we now run the program here we're
actually
going to load in the image from our
webcam we're going to pass it through
this machine learning solution here that
is going to detect
the phase landmarks and then we just set
up this drawing here to actually draw
the landmarks that we're detecting in
our image frame
so around us run the program here we're
actually going to see that we're now
detecting
a face mesh here in the image from our
webcam so we can see if i'm moving
around here it tracks my face really
good because we have this
uh just tracking coefficient or like
this tracking confidence of 0.5
so we can pray play around with these
parameters if we get some false
positives
and stuff like that but we can see that
it is dragging my face around like
really good we have some really nice and
cool
features and landmarks around my face we
can see like around my mouth here
there's really nice details around the
mouth here and also the nose
and also the eyes here so we can use
that information to do a lot of
different kind of stuff
we get some other different kind of
landmarks here like around uh around
like the chin
and stuff like that so it's a really
nice and cool face mist that we're
actually detecting with this
media pipe solution here uh like this
machine learning solution here where
we're just
loading our image from the webcam we
pass it through this machine learning
method here
and then we're going to just draw the
different kind of detections that we
actually like
detecting with these landmarks here and
then we're just displayed we get a
really nice and high
frames per second in this case here we
get around like 100 frames per second
and this is just a common or like a
standout
cpu that we're running on so like all
these different kind of machine learning
solutions they can both run like
on raspberries embedded systems they can
even run in
in like web applications and stuff like
that so we don't need any gpus and stuff
and and stuff like that or like hardware
accelerators to actually like be
able to run these different kind of
machine learning solutions so this is a
really nice and cool uh
landmark they take there or like face
mesh detector that we can use for a lot
of different kind of things
and then later on in this tutorial here
that we now have started with this
media pipe module here we're going to
combine all these things here that we're
that we're going to set up
we're going to play along with them like
create some different kind of projects
and stuff like that by using these uh
point clouds or like face meshes here
that we're actually like detecting in
our image we can also do some hand
hand detection where we're detecting
like all the all the fingers and stuff
like that and we can play around with
like what are we doing with the fingers
create some different kind of
applications and stuff and stuff like
that
so that's pretty much it here guys we've
been over like how we can set up this
basement detector here how we can load
in our image use this media pipe machine
learning solution here we just process
our image with that
we convert our image back and forth
between rgb and pkr and then we're using
opencv
to actually like draw our images as well
so
thank you guys for watching this video
here and remember the subscribe button
and bell notification under the video
here and also
like this video here if you like the
content and you want more in the future
because it just really helps me and the
youtube channel out in a massive way so
i'm currently also doing this uh deep
learning tutorial where we're going over
the basic stuff in
and deep learning uh neural networks and
stuff like that if you want to learn how
to create a new network from scratch and
create like
sort of like some of these different
kind of machine learning solutions here
uh with convolutional neural networks
where we actually like going to create
convolutional neural networks from
scratch
have some data set with some images that
we're going to train our neural network
on
and then we're going to do predictions
and look at the training results and
stuff like that
on images that our neural network hasn't
seen before so we're going to do some
classification problems
and stuff like that so it's a really
nice and cool tutorial as well and we're
going to combine that
with this computer vision tutorial here
as well and also we can also like kind
of see it here in this media pipe
solution
module here where they're using computer
vision together with deep learning
machine learning
to create these really uh really
optimized well optimized
machine learning solutions that we can
run different kind of like applications
on
face meshes face detections hand
detection holistic detection 3d of the
detection and so on and we're going to
see all of it
but i'll link to the deep learning
tutorial up here or else other senior
next story guys
bye for now
you